README.md, before:

# Master Degree Project - Analysis of Flow Prolongation Using Graph Neural Network (GNN) in FIFO Multiplexing System

## Environment and Prerequisites
The whole project is run on my Macbook Pro (Intel Chip) and the EPFL servers. It's worth mentioning that for EPFL servers, only Izar supports NVIDIA GPUs for GNN model training and the adversarial attack.
- IDE: Visual Studio Code
- Python: 3.8.5
- Java: 16.0.2
- [NetCal/DNC](https://github.com/NetCal/DNC): v2.8.0
- [IBM ILOG CPLEX Optimization Studio](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/icos/20.1.0?topic=cplex-setting-up-gnulinuxmacos): 20.1.0 （This is used only for LUDB-FF calculation）
- Python packages information can be found at [requirements.txt](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/requirements.txt)

## EPFL SCITAS Server Configuration
Java is mainly used for NetCal/DNC. If there is no Java config. in your computer, please download it from the official website. Considering students are not the admins of EPFL servers, it is therefore a good idea to put Java configuration into a user-defined file under the home path, i.e., add the following three lines into the .bashrc file.
```
$export JAVA_HOME=/home/<your_epfl_account>/jdk-16.0.2
$export PATH=$JAVA_HOME/bin:$PATH
$export CLASSPATH=.:$JAVA_HOME/lib/dt.jar:$JAVA_HOME/lib/tools.jar
```
Python is used for GNN training and the subsequent Adversarial Attack. It is highly recommended to use Python in a user-defined virtual environment on EPFL servers.

To create a python virtual environemnt:  
```
$virtualenv --system-site-packages venvs/<env_name>
```

To activate and use the virtual environment:  
```
$source venvs/<env_name>/bin/activate
```

Confirm python3 is the default python version instead of python2:  
```
$module spider python
$module spider python/<python_version>
$module load gcc/<gcc_version> python/<python_version>
```

Install the required python packages: [requirements.txt](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/requirements.txt). Please pay great attention to torch-related packages. There are several cuda versions available on the IZAR server. However, as far as to our test, ```cuda/10.2.89``` is the only one which meets all required dependencies for both PyTorch and PyG. Therefore, for torch-related packages installation on the server, please follow the steps:
```
$module load cuda/10.2.89
$pip3 install torch
$python -c "import torch; print(torch.__version__)" # confirm the torch version
$python -c "import torch; print(torch.version.cuda)" # confirt the cuda version
$pip install torch-scatter -f https://data.pyg.org/whl/torch-1.12.1+cu102.html
$pip install torch-sparse -f https://data.pyg.org/whl/torch-1.12.1+cu102.html
$pip install torch-geometric
```

It is also worth mentioning that if you want to import ```torch_geometric```, please also import ```scipy``` at the same time.

For more information on Python environment, it is recommended to read the SCITAS Documentation on [Python Virtual Environment](https://scitas-data.epfl.ch/confluence/display/DOC/Python+Virtual+Environments).

For the writing of .sh script used for running the code on EPFL servers, please refer to one example [here](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/data/large_network_generation/netgen.sh).

## Codes Description
### DeepFP_gnn-main
- [netcal_analysis.py](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/analysis/netcal_analysis.py) : Call the ```NetCal4Python.java``` to calculate the delay bound of a given topology (The topology is stored in a .pbz format).
- [potential_attack_target.py](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/analysis/potential_attack_target.py) :  Find the potential attack target(s) based on the two prediction values of GNN. For the first prediction value, it is mainly based on the flow of interest, and tells whether other flows of this topology are worth prolonging (the criteria value is 0.5). For the second prediction values, they are based on the possibile prolonging flows whose criteria is the highest values.
- [graph_transformer.py](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/data/graph_transformer.py) : Transform a human reading-friendly graph to a GNN-based recognized graph.
- [prepare_dataset_pmoo.py](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/data/prepare_dataset_pmoo.py) :  Transform .pbz format dataset to a .pickle format dataset based on the NetCal method pmoo. The .pickle format dataset is based on matrices and will be used for the trainning of GNN and the FGSM adversarial attack. One graph.pickle file is the network feature matrices, and anther target.pickle file is the correct flow prolongation matrices.
- [prepare_dataset_deborah.py](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/data/prepare_dataset_deborah.py) : Same above while the NetCal method is changed to deborah.
- [large_network_generation_pbz.py](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/data/large_network_generation/large_network_generation_pbz.py): Generate a large-scale network dataset for adversarial attack, i.e., the number of servers and flows are large.
- [large_network.proto](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/data/large_network_generation/large_network/large_network.proto): Define the dataset structure for large-scale network. It is mainly used by ```large_network_generation_pbz.py```.
- [large_network.descr](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/data/large_network_generation/large_network/large_network.descr) and [large_network_pb2.py](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/data/large_network_generation/large_network/large_network_pb2.py): A systematic generated file after compilation from ```large_network.proto```. The following read and write opeartions on large network dataset structure will mainly based on these two.
- [netgen.sh](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/data/large_network_generation/netgen.sh) : A script needed for the EPFL server. This script is for the large-scale network dataset generation. For running operations on other codes, please change the correspoding content in this script.
- [adversarial_attack.py](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/model/adversarial_attack.py) : The adversarial attack using the FGSM to change the server rate, server latency, flow rate and flow burst.
- [ggnn_pmoo.pt](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/model/ggnn_pmoo.pt) : A pre-trained GNN model based on pmoo NetCal method. You are also welcomed to train the model on your own.
- [gnn.py](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/model/gnn.py) : Define the neural network structure of GNN.
- [train_model.py](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/model/train_model.py) : The process of training the GNN model, and evaluation of the model accuracy.
- [predict_multiple_networks.py](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/model/predict_multiple_networks.py) : Predict the flow prolongation by using the ```ggnn_pmoo.pt``` model. The prediction can be done for the topologies before/after the adversarial attack. This code highly depends on the ```predict_model.py```.
- [network_writer.py](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/output/network_writer.py) : Plot the network topology stored in .pbz.
- [predict_model.py](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/output/predict_model.py) : Use the pre-trained GNN model to predict the flow prolongation on a new network topology configuration, and store the result in a .pbz format.
- [write_attacked_network.py](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/output/write_attacked_network.py) : Write the network after the adversarial attack into a .pbz file according to the attack.descr description and also calculate the delay bound for this network.

### DNC
- [NetCal4Python.java](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DNC/src/main/java/org/networkcalculus/dnc/degree_project/NetCal4Python.java) : Calculate the delay bounds on a given network setting.
 - [NetCal.jar](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/NetCal.jar) : The .jar of this NetCal/DNC repo, for the convenience of running the NetCal/DNC on the EPFL server by command ```java -jar NetCal.jar```.

## Reproduction and Usage Specification
### Train the GNN Model
1. Please download the dataset by followoing the this [link](https://github.com/fabgeyer/dataset-rtas2021).
2. ```python3 prepare_dataset_deborah.py``` or ```python3 prepare_dataset_pmoo.py``` depending on the Network Calculus method. It will change the dataset stored in .pbz format to a .pickle format where network topologies are changed to network matrices.
3. ```python3 train_model.py``` to train the model.
4. ```python3 predict_model.py``` to use the trained model to predict the flow prolongations on a brand new network topology.

### Do the Adversarial Attack on the Network Topologies
1. ```Make``` under the large_network folder if you cannot find the ```large_network.proto```. This will compile and generate two necessary data structure file used for the creation of a new dataset. Furthermore, pmoo will be the main NetCal method used in the Adversarial Attack.
2. ```python3 dataset_network_generation_pbz.py``` to generate a larger size of dataset. This is mainly because the network size (# servers, # flows) is small in the existing [dataset](https://github.com/fabgeyer/dataset-rtas2021). This will output ```dataset-attack-large.pbz```.
3. ```python3 prepare_dataset_pmoo.py``` The input is the newly-created larger size dataset ```dataset-attack-large.pbz```, and will ouput two .pickle files: ```attack_graphs.pickle``` and ```attack_targets.pickle```.
4. ```python3 predict_multiple_networks.py``` The input is also the ```dataset-attack-large.pbz``` and will output two files. One is ```prediction_<topo_id>.csv``` where two prediction values are stored inside. Another is ```original_<topo_id>_<foi_id>.pbz``` which is the flow prolongation for the original topology (the topology before the Adversarial Attack).
5.

Commit message:

Formalize the input of predict_original_networks.py and update the prediction on the original topologies operation on the IZAR server

README.md, after:

# Master Degree Project - Analysis of Flow Prolongation Using Graph Neural Network (GNN) in FIFO Multiplexing System

## Environment and Prerequisites
The whole project is run on my Macbook Pro (Intel Chip) and the EPFL servers. It's worth mentioning that for EPFL servers, only Izar supports NVIDIA GPUs for GNN model training and the adversarial attack.
- IDE: Visual Studio Code
- Python: 3.8.5
- Java: 16.0.2
- [NetCal/DNC](https://github.com/NetCal/DNC): v2.8.0
- [IBM ILOG CPLEX Optimization Studio](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/icos/20.1.0?topic=cplex-setting-up-gnulinuxmacos): 20.1.0 （This is used only for LUDB-FF calculation）
- Python packages information can be found at [requirements.txt](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/requirements.txt)

## EPFL SCITAS Server Configuration
Java is mainly used for NetCal/DNC. If there is no Java config. in your computer, please download it from the official website. Considering students are not the admins of EPFL servers, it is therefore a good idea to put Java configuration into a user-defined file under the home path, i.e., add the following three lines into the .bashrc file.
```
$export JAVA_HOME=/home/<your_epfl_account>/jdk-16.0.2
$export PATH=$JAVA_HOME/bin:$PATH
$export CLASSPATH=.:$JAVA_HOME/lib/dt.jar:$JAVA_HOME/lib/tools.jar
```
Python is used for GNN training and the subsequent Adversarial Attack. It is highly recommended to use Python in a user-defined virtual environment on EPFL servers.

To create a python virtual environemnt:  
```
$virtualenv --system-site-packages venvs/<env_name>
```

To activate and use the virtual environment:  
```
$source venvs/<env_name>/bin/activate
```

Confirm python3 is the default python version instead of python2:  
```
$module spider python
$module spider python/<python_version>
$module load gcc/<gcc_version> python/<python_version>
```

Install the required python packages: [requirements.txt](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/requirements.txt). Please pay great attention to torch-related packages. There are several cuda versions available on the IZAR server. However, as far as to our test, ```cuda/10.2.89``` is the only one which meets all required dependencies for both PyTorch and PyG. Therefore, for torch-related packages installation on the server, please follow the steps:
```
$module load cuda/10.2.89
$pip3 install torch
$python -c "import torch; print(torch.__version__)" # confirm the torch version
$python -c "import torch; print(torch.version.cuda)" # confirt the cuda version
$pip install torch-scatter -f https://data.pyg.org/whl/torch-1.12.1+cu102.html
$pip install torch-sparse -f https://data.pyg.org/whl/torch-1.12.1+cu102.html
$pip install torch-geometric
```

It is also worth mentioning that if you want to import ```torch_geometric```, please also import ```scipy``` at the same time.

For more information on Python environment, it is recommended to read the SCITAS Documentation on [Python Virtual Environment](https://scitas-data.epfl.ch/confluence/display/DOC/Python+Virtual+Environments).

For the writing of .sh script used for running the code on EPFL servers, please refer to one example [here](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/data/large_network_generation/netgen.sh).

If the documentation of SCITAS website cannot be openned, please turn on the EPFL VPN. If there are more information about the server configuration, please contact the EPFL SCITAS service desk 1234@epfl.ch

## Codes Description
### DeepFP_gnn-main
- [netcal_analysis.py](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/analysis/netcal_analysis.py) : Call the ```NetCal4Python.java``` to calculate the delay bound of a given topology (The topology is stored in a .pbz format).
- [potential_attack_target.py](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/analysis/potential_attack_target.py) :  Find the potential attack target(s) based on the two prediction values of GNN. For the first prediction value, it is mainly based on the flow of interest, and tells whether other flows of this topology are worth prolonging (the criteria value is 0.5). For the second prediction values, they are based on the possibile prolonging flows whose criteria is the highest values.
- [graph_transformer.py](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/data/graph_transformer.py) : Transform a human reading-friendly graph to a GNN-based recognized graph.
- [prepare_dataset_pmoo.py](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/data/prepare_dataset_pmoo.py) :  Transform .pbz format dataset to a .pickle format dataset based on the NetCal method pmoo. The .pickle format dataset is based on matrices and will be used for the trainning of GNN and the FGSM adversarial attack. One graph.pickle file is the network feature matrices, and anther target.pickle file is the correct flow prolongation matrices.
- [prepare_dataset_deborah.py](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/data/prepare_dataset_deborah.py) : Same above while the NetCal method is changed to deborah.
- [large_network_generation_pbz.py](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/data/large_network_generation/large_network_generation_pbz.py): Generate a large-scale network dataset for adversarial attack, i.e., the number of servers and flows are large.
- [large_network.proto](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/data/large_network_generation/large_network/large_network.proto): Define the dataset structure for large-scale network. It is mainly used by ```large_network_generation_pbz.py```.
- [large_network.descr](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/data/large_network_generation/large_network/large_network.descr) and [large_network_pb2.py](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/data/large_network_generation/large_network/large_network_pb2.py): A systematic generated file after compilation from ```large_network.proto```. The following read and write opeartions on large network dataset structure will mainly based on these two.
- [netgen.sh](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/data/large_network_generation/netgen.sh) : A script needed for the EPFL server. This script is for the large-scale network dataset generation. For running operations on other codes, please change the correspoding content in this script.
- [adversarial_attack.py](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/model/adversarial_attack.py) : The adversarial attack using the FGSM to change the server rate, server latency, flow rate and flow burst.
- [ggnn_pmoo.pt](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/model/ggnn_pmoo.pt) : A pre-trained GNN model based on pmoo NetCal method. You are also welcomed to train the model on your own.
- [gnn.py](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/model/gnn.py) : Define the neural network structure of GNN.
- [train_model.py](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/model/train_model.py) : The process of training the GNN model, and evaluation of the model accuracy.
- [predict_multiple_networks.py](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/model/predict_multiple_networks.py) : Predict the flow prolongation by using the ```ggnn_pmoo.pt``` model. The prediction can be done for the topologies before/after the adversarial attack. This code highly depends on the ```predict_model.py```.
- [network_writer.py](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/output/network_writer.py) : Plot the network topology stored in .pbz.
- [predict_model.py](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/output/predict_model.py) : Use the pre-trained GNN model to predict the flow prolongation on a new network topology configuration, and store the result in a .pbz format.
- [write_attacked_network.py](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DeepFP_gnn-main/src/output/write_attacked_network.py) : Write the network after the adversarial attack into a .pbz file according to the attack.descr description and also calculate the delay bound for this network.

### DNC
- [NetCal4Python.java](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/DNC/src/main/java/org/networkcalculus/dnc/degree_project/NetCal4Python.java) : Calculate the delay bounds on a given network setting.
 - [NetCal.jar](https://github.com/wangweiran0129/Degree_Project_Network_Calculus/blob/master/NetCal.jar) : The .jar of this NetCal/DNC repo, for the convenience of running the NetCal/DNC on the EPFL server by command ```java -jar NetCal.jar```.

## Reproduction and Usage Specification
### Train the GNN Model
1. Please download the dataset by followoing the this [link](https://github.com/fabgeyer/dataset-rtas2021).
2. ```python3 prepare_dataset_deborah.py``` or ```python3 prepare_dataset_pmoo.py``` depending on the Network Calculus method. It will change the dataset stored in .pbz format to a .pickle format where network topologies are changed to network matrices.
3. ```python3 train_model.py``` to train the model.
4. ```python3 predict_model.py``` to use the trained model to predict the flow prolongations on a brand new network topology.

### Do the Adversarial Attack on the Network Topologies
1. ```Make``` under the data/large_network_generation/network_structure folder if you cannot find the ```network_structure_pb2.py``` and ```network_strcture.descr```. This will compile and generate two necessary data structure files used for the creation of a new dataset. Furthermore, pmoo will be the main NetCal method used in the Adversarial Attack.
2. ```python3 dataset_network_generation_pbz.py``` to generate a larger size of dataset. This is mainly because the network size (# servers, # flows) is small in the existing [dataset](https://github.com/fabgeyer/dataset-rtas2021). This will output ```dataset-attack-large.pbz```. Please set up the NetCal.jar beforehand by ```java -jar NetCal.jar```. On IZAR server, run the script ```sbatch netgen.sh```
3. ```python3 -m prepare_dataset_pmoo "<dataset-attack-large.pbz file path>"``` The input is the newly-created larger size dataset ```dataset-attack-large.pbz```, and will ouput two .pickle files: ```attack_graphs.pickle``` and ```attack_targets.pickle```.  
On IZAR server, run the script ```pbz2pickle.sh```
4. Please switch to src/output folder, ```python -m predict_original_networks "<deepfpPMOO.pt/ggnn_pmoo.pt model path>" "<dataset-attack-large.pbz file path>"``` This code will output two files. One is ```prediction_<topo_id>.csv``` where two prediction values are stored inside. Another is ```original_<topo_id>_<foi_id>.pbz``` which is the flow prolongation for the original topology (the topology before the Adversarial Attack).  Please be careful that in the prolongation of the original network, the delay bound after the flow prolongation will also be calculated, so please let the NetCal.jar run beforehand.  
On IZAR server, run the script ```prediction_original_networks.sh```
5.
